Loic Remy's early strike sealed a hard-fought 1-0 victory for Newcastle against Tottenham at White Hart Lane but it was goalkeeper Tim Krul who will deservedly take the plaudits.
??
With all of the pre-game talk about Spurs stopper Hugo Lloris missing out after being knocked unconscious at Everton last weekend, it was the Magpies' own number one who produced heroics to earn his side a 1-0 win.
Remy's well-taken strike in the 13th minute - his seventh goal in his last seven Barclays Premier League appearances - put the visitors ahead before his Dutch team-mate took centre stage, blocking Spurs at every turn.
The 25-year-old was worked much harder than Brad Friedel in the Spurs goal, the American deputising after Spurs' medical team opted to give Lloris a few more days' rest after his collision with Everton forward Romelu Lukaku seven days earlier.
Time and again Krul was called into action, producing fantastic saves to deny Roberto Soldado, Paulinho and Gylfi Sigurdsson amongst others.
The first chance for the home side came from a ninth-minute corner which was headed over by Soldado when he should have done better.
The opening seemed to stir Newcastle into life as Remy had a sight of goal shortly afterwards, but Tottenham defender Vlad Chiriches was on hand to block the France forward's shot behind for a corner.
Friedel just about dealt with the resultant set-piece and then had to push Yohan Cabaye's effort behind as the visitors came into the match.
But Friedel could do nothing about Remy's strike moments later as Yoan Gouffran robbed Paulinho of possession and played a through-ball to the QPR loanee, who took the ball around the American goalkeeper and slotted home.
Spurs chased an instant response but no one could get on the end of an inviting Christian Eriksen cross and Paulinho blazed over as a quick equaliser eluded them.
Jan Vertonghen was the next to try his luck for Andre Villas-Boas' side but his low effort was easy for Krul to collect. The Belgium international then arrowed a low free-kick just wide of Krul's left post.
Soldado forced Krul into a full-stretch save as his flicked header from Eriksen's free-kick sent the goalkeeper flying high to his right.
Eriksen stung the palms of Krul with a powerful long-range effort, with the early afternoon sunshine making the save less routine.
Shola Ameobi had the ball in the back of the net in the 37th minute but he had been flagged offside as Newcastle adjusted to a counter-attacking approach.
Spurs were inching closer and closer to an equaliser but were yet again thwarted by wonderful goalkeeping from Krul.
This time the Holland international flung himself across goal to tip Paulinho's curling shot away from goal.
The second half followed on from where the first had ended, with Krul again denying everything thrown at him by Spurs, using his legs to keep out Eriksen's stab towards goal.
A deflected Sigurdsson free-kick again brought out the best out of Krul, who was sharp enough to block Younes Kaboul's follow-up with Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa then clearing ahead of the onrushing Tottenham cavalry.
With the hosts on top it was Soldado who passed up the next opportunity as he fired wide after latching on to Kyle Walker's cross.
Newcastle showed they were still a threat at the other end as they broke forward through Moussa Sissoko, whose shot was pushed away by Friedel.
Jermain Defoe was introduced with 22 minutes remaining as Villas-Boas decided to play with two forwards, Sigurdsson making way.
Andros Townsend cut in and arrowed a shot towards goal which Krul could only push away this time, but he got enough on the ball to keep it out of the path of the fast-approaching Soldado.
Brazil midfielder Paulinho hit straight at Krul when well-placed inside the penalty area as time started to run out for the home side.
Even when Spurs did manage to beat Krul they found the woodwork blocking their path as Vertonghen's back-post header hit the crossbar, ensuring that a goalkeeper on the pitch rather than one playing no part took at least a share of the headlines.
