Eden Hazard scored a controversial penalty deep in stoppage time to rescue a point for Chelsea in a 2-2 draw against West Brom, saving Jose Mourinho from a first home Premier League defeat as Blues boss.
??
?? 
?? 
?? 
The Belgium midfielder, recalled after being left out of the midweek Champions League win over Schalke for disciplinary reasons, converted after referee Andre Mariner pointed to the spot for what looked like a fair shoulder challenge by Steven Reid on Ramires.
It was rough justice on West Brom, who looked set for another memorable away victory after winning at Manchester United in September.
Chelsea, who lost at Newcastle last weekend, had gone in front just before half-time through another poacher's goal from Samuel Eto'o after Liam Ridgewell delayed his clearance.
However, Steve Clarke's side were level on the hour through Shane Long's header before Chelsea keeper Petr Cech allowed Stephane Sessegnon's shot to squirm into the net.
Mourinho, who had not lost any of his previous 65 Premier League home games in two spells as Blues manager, again preferred Cesar Azpilicueta to England defender Ashley Cole at left-back.
The visitors, with Clarke taking on his old club, broke on eight minutes but Morgan Amalfitano dragged his shot wide.
Chelsea were awarded a free-kick on 14 minutes after Oscar was upended by Claudio Yacob. Frank Lampard smacked the ball straight into Youssouf Mulumbu, with Long racing away onto the rebound down the left before he was tripped by Lampard, resulting in a yellow card for the Chelsea midfielder.
Yacob had tested the patience of referee Andre Mariner once too often after clipping Hazard's heels and went into the book on 28 minutes.
Oscar took the free-kick, some 25 yards out on the right, and curled the ball up over the wall, but Baggies keeper Boaz Myhill was alert to tip it over the crossbar.
Chelsea continued to press, with Oscar smashing the ball high into the Shed End from 18 yards after a quick break.
But the hosts took the lead on the stroke of half-time when Hazard cut in from the left and drilled in a low shot, which Myhill did well to push away at full strength.
However, Ridgewell dithered instead of hacking the loose ball away and Eto'o sneaked in on the blind side again to slot past the keeper into the far corner.
Eto'o, who scored a similar opportunist goal against Schalke from a goalkeeping error in midweek, wheeled away in celebration and was booked for his troubles.
Chelsea opened up West Brom at the start of the second half with a wonderful sweeping 30-yard pass from Oscar which floated over to Hazard, charging into the area down the left.
However, the Belgian's first touch was heavy, pushing the ball on through to a grateful Myhill.
West Brom were almost level on 56 minutes when Morgan Amalfitano's deep cross from the right was headed against the outside of the far post by Long.
But the visitors equalised on the hour, when a corner from the right was met with a power header from Gareth McAuley, which Cech did well to beat away at point-blank range.
As the ball looped up in the six-yard box, with the Chelsea keeper on the ground, Long climbed highest through the bodies to nod in his first of the season.
Mourinho reacted by changing Lampard for striker Demba Ba. However, it was the visitors who went ahead on 68 minutes.
The Baggies broke quickly down the left, with Ridgewell in support of the counter-attack, and he fed Sessegnon at the edge of the penalty area.
The Benin forward sidestepped his marker and sent a low shot goalwards, which squirmed through Cech's grasp and into the net.
Mourinho made his final throw of the dice when Azpilicueta was replaced by John Obi Mikel and Juan Mata came on for Oscar.
Myhill denied Branislav Ivanovic with a smart save to his right as Chelsea pressed for an equaliser before Willian headed over.
However, West Brom were left crestfallen in the fourth minute of stoppage time when Reid was adjudged to have pushed over Ramires and Hazard slotted past Myhill to snatch Chelsea a draw.
